Add topic for diagnostic IDs (#37877)
dotnet/docs: docs/csharp/roslyn-sdk/choosing-diagnostic-ids.md

---
title: Choosing diagnostic IDs
description: This overview provides an understanding of how to choose a diagnostic ID
ms.date: 11/2/2023

> ms.custom: mvc, vs-dotnet, analyzers, source-generators

Author: No sure what those are used for; I also added `analyzers`

---

> # Choosing diagnostic IDs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Choose diagnostic IDs
```

A diagnostic ID is the string associated with a given diagnostic, such as a
compiler error or a diagnostic that is produced by an analyzer.

> They are surfaced from various APIs, such as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The IDs are surfaced from various APIs, such as:
```

> * [DiagnosticDescriptor.Id]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* <xref:Microsoft.CodeAnalysis.DiagnosticDescriptor.Id?displayProperty=nameWithType>
```

> * [ObsoleteAttribute.DiagnosticId]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* <xref:System.ObsoleteAttribute.DiagnosticId?displayProperty=nameWithType>
```

> * [ExperimentalAttribute.DiagnosticId]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* <xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.ExperimentalAttribute.DiagnosticId?displayProperty=nameWithType>
```

> They are also used as identifiers in source, e.g. from [#pragma warning disable]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Diagnostic IDs are also used as identifiers in source, for example, from [#pragma warning disable]
```

or [.editorconfig] files.

## Considerations

* Diagnostic IDs should be unique
* Diagnostic IDs must be legal identifiers in C#
* Diagnostic IDs should be less than 15 characters long

> * Diagnostic IDs should be of the form `PREFIX123456`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Diagnostic IDs should be of the form `<PREFIX><number>`
```

>   - The prefix should be specific to your project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The prefix is specific to your project
```

>   - The number should represent the specific diagnostic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The number represents the specific diagnostic
```

> [!NOTE]

> > It's a source breaking change to change diagnostic IDs (e.g. existing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> It's a source breaking change to change diagnostic IDs. For example, existing
```

> > It's a source breaking change to change diagnostic IDs (e.g. existing
> > suppressions would now ignored).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> It's a source breaking change to change diagnostic IDs, as existing
> suppressions would be ignored.
```

> > suppressions would now ignored).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> suppressions would be ignored if the ID changed.
```

> You generally don't want to limit your prefix to two-characters (such as `CSXXX`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid ID conflicts, you generally don't want to limit your prefix to two-characters (such as `CSXXX`
```

> and `CAXXXX`) but rather something longer to avoid conflicts. For the `System.*`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or `CAXXXX`). Rather, use a longer prefix. For example, the `System.*`
```

> You generally don't want to limit your prefix to two-characters (such as `CSXXX`
> and `CAXXXX`) but rather something longer to avoid conflicts. For the `System.*`
> diagnostics we use `SYSLIB` for instance.

Reviewer 2: This paragraph feels a bit too informal for a docs page.

```suggestion
Don't limit your prefix to two-characters (such as `CSXXX`and `CAXXXX`).
Instead, use a longer prefix to avoid conflicts. For example, the `System.*`
diagnostics use `SYSLIB` as their prefix.
```

> diagnostics we use `SYSLIB` for instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
diagnostics use the prefix `SYSLIB`.
```

> [DiagnosticDescriptor.Id]: https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/microsoft.codeanalysis.diagnosticdescriptor.id

Author: Is this the right way to link to APIs?

Reviewer: No, I put the correct xrefs earlier in the review.

[ObsoleteAttribute.DiagnosticId]: https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.obsoleteattribute.diagnosticid
[ExperimentalAttribute.DiagnosticId]: https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.diagnostics.codeanalysis.experimentalattribute.diagnosticid

> [#pragma warning disable]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/preprocessor-directives#pragma-warning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[#pragma warning disable]: ../language-reference/preprocessor-directives.md#pragma-warning
```

> [.editorconfig]: https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/code-style-rule-options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[.editorconfig]: ../../fundamentals/code-analysis/code-style-rule-options.md
```
